so got a beautiful set of knives here
this everyday chef's knife this for
smaller prep work carving bread stuff
like that obviously an everyday veg
knife here and then this knife here has
got enough of a flex you don't want too
much flex but enough of a flex that you
can go alongside Phillips of fish and
stuff like that there's a whole bunch of
features good quality stainless steel
very important good sharp blade here
we've got a thickness here that is much
bigger than usual and this is great it
gives it real good weight really nice
balance when you're using it handles
very comfy basically this selection of
knives I believe will get you out of
nearly all situations I mean literally
all situations so let's all put it back
in one of the features of this is that
it goes in this beautiful block what
I've done is put the name of the knives
in the top of the hill here so when it's
in the block you can actually see what
you're pulling out and you know what you
get in first of all bit of sharpening
action we have a steel here as well you
hold it you got this guard here and
really controlled movements from the
base to the tip sit to the base don't
have to do it fast but literally if you
just go like that base tip space tip
base tip base tip two strokes of that
every time you use it so you pick it out
put it up one two that's all you need
when you finish of it one two you don't
have to sit there going like that unless
you've got a blunt knife so let's go
through a bit of knife skills action
we've got a carrot here first thing this
is rolling all over the place so you can
just carefully skim that off give it a
flat base and then it ain't gonna go
walkies also use your thumb here keep
the thumb out of the way never have your
thumb never have your thumb like that
because you'll end up taking it off and
look very closely it's rocking movements
that's what's happening see what's
happening and that's all about the shape
of the knife that I've made Shores
happened here
so there's your rocking movement I'm
going to bring that around to here and
then you see if you're just up against
that finger like that it's just rubbing
against it I know my fingers are tucked
in so I don't even have to look at my
fingers and that's your fact when you
get confident with it
you know you could really go very very
fast I know it's all very well for me
with knife skills to be out to say you
do it like this you do it like that but
I have got a bit of kit that will help
you so I'm gonna put this guard on now
obviously I don't use this but for
someone trying to gain skills get
comfortable you can see we've got the
curve in it here so you make sure you're
bending and this protects that part of
your hand here like that we'll just use
it again see it's rubbing up against it
and it just gives you that little bit of
confidence to get you going so there you
go beautiful set of knives really
pleased with that really good products
and something that will last you a long
long time
you've got steel and the trainer as well
really good for getting those skills up
you can put it in the dishwasher but
frankly it's better with just slightly
warmed water not hot water and just rub
it off that's the best way to do it and
there you go